WIP Inclusive Events Communications Subsection (#3327)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: book/website/collaboration/inclusive-events/inclusive-events-comms.md

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-timeline)=
## When to send Core Communications
The timeline for planning a communications schedule for your event will vary greatly depending on the size and type of event. 

When planning an event for people with lived experience, please be mindful that you might need to allocate more time to plan for - and to implement - accessibility requirements, and that many people with lived experience might require information with as much notice as possible in order to plan their attendance.

This can support both attendees with a disability who may need to book accessible transport or book support arrangements, but is also good [universal design]((cl-inclusive-events-planning-intro) as it can support people with caregiving responsibilities or people who have busy schedules. 

The more advance notice you can give to people, the more flexibility people have to organize support and make arrangements, and the more likely they will be to attend your event.

(cl-inclusive-events-save-the-date)=

> ### Save the Date

Author: Fixed in most recent commit

Firstly, consider how you will support speakers in developing accessible and inclusive material. 
This may mean developing and sharing guidance on session content, or could also be giving feedback on presentation drafts. 
Ensure that you contact and confirm your speakers with enough notice that allows them to prepare and revise material. 
Please refer to the {ref}`cl-inclusive-events-comms-accessibility-guide` section for more recommendations on what to include in a speaker guidance pack for how to make presentations accessible. 

Secondly, it is best practice to send out content before the session or event to ensure that people with sensory impairments, or who may require more time to review and engage with the material, are able to understand and take part. 

If this is not possible, please address the reasons why in the opening address of the event and make alternative arrangements.
For example, if the information is sensitive and unable to be shared due to Intellectual Property or Privacy reasons. 

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-event-content)=
### Collaborative Event Content

> If the content such as presentation slides, worksheets, and other material are able to be shared but was not sent out before the event started consider sending out notes, session minutes, and session content during - or - as soon as possible, after the session. 
> You could also consider taking collaborative notes during the session and making the document link available for attendees. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If content such as presentation slides, worksheets, and other material are able to be shared but was not sent out before the event, consider sending it as soon as possible after the session. 
You can then also send out notes or session minutes taken during the event.
You could also consider taking collaborative notes during the session and making the document link available for attendees. 
```

Just tried to break it up a bit, as the minutes/notes can't be sent beforehand for a different reason :)

- Why are you trying to reach them?
- What information do you need to include?
- When do your attendees with lived experience need the information?
- How will you convey the information?

Depending on the scale and resources for your event, your communications plan may include the development of websites, PDFs, flyers, banners, and social media posts in addition to email and calendar invites. 

By carefully planning out what you need to communicate, when, and how you ensure that the information is received and understood, your attendees will be supported in spending their effort and energy taking part in your event instead of worrying about their access needs.

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-timeline)=
## When to send Core Communications
The timeline for planning a communications schedule for your event will vary greatly depending on the size and type of event. 

When planning an event for people with lived experience, please be mindful that you might need to allocate more time to plan for - and to implement - accessibility requirements, and that many people with lived experience might require information with more notice in order to plan their attendance.

> This can support both attendees with a disability who may need to book accessible transport or book support arrangements, but is also good [universal design]((cl-inclusive-events-planning-intro) as it can support people with caregiving responsibilities or people who have busy schedules. 

Author: Fixed.

Consider sending out different forms of a "Save the Date" to support how different people use and interact with online calendars. 
For example, sending out an online calendar placeholder, an email invitation written in plain text with formatted headings, attaching a PDF flyer with "Save the Date" information, and promoting "Save the Date" information through your usual communication channels such as Slack, LinkedIn or organization's website and social media. 
This can ensure that people who use different communication channels are able to receive the information in a medium that is accessible to them and through the channel they are most comfortably using. 

```{note} 
The Public and Patient Involvement and Engagement Community for people with experience of Multiple Long-Term Conditions had asked event organizers to send out both calendar invitations compatible with Outlook and Google calendars, and email invitations. 

This was to support the community members who often needed to manage event attendance around medical appointments, as well as support those who had visual impairments and would benefit from digital tools providing reminders.

> Many of the MLTC PPIE Community expressed that they would not regularly check emails and instead would rely on their calendars, however, some members of the community expressed the opposite and did not use digital calendars but would download and print out flyers for their notice boards. 

Author: No links while we're still thinking about how to digitalise the meeting notes. I could link to the AIM project page which might help.

> Many of the MLTC PPIE Community expressed that they would not regularly check emails and instead would rely on their calendars, however, some members of the community expressed the opposite and did not use digital calendars but would download and print out flyers for their notice boards. 

Author: I took out the abbreviation and linked it to the sentences above :)

The [Autism Advocacy Accessible Event Planning Guide](https://autisticadvocacy.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Accessible-Event-Planning.pdf) also contains other recommendations and timeline guidance for running events for autistic people.
```
(cl-inclusive-events-dress-code)=
## Communicating Dress Code and Setting Information
For many attendees, especially those with lived experience, your event may be the first research event they have been invited to. 
Additionally, the terms "researcher" and "scientist" may carry many stereotypes such as people wearing lab coats, tweed jackets, or formal robes. 

It can be helpful to surface tacit information, such as what to wear, in your event information to help all attendees feel comfortable and to dispel any assumptions people may have about what a "scientist" looks like. 

Consider communicating if there is an expectation of business, business casual, or other dress code and if your event will host any particular social events that may require a different dress code.
For example, closed-toed shoes in a museum, or modest dress for a sacred site.

Also, consider including a short description of what that specific dress code means.

> You can include examples or reference images if it is particularly important to be dressed a certain way, for example, a research event that may be visited by a Royal Family or other dignitary. 

Author: Yup. 

I figured it might just bear bringing back up into recent memory 😅

[Mozilla's Developer Documentation on Web Accessibility](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Understanding_WCAG) provides a good overview of how to meet these 4 web accessibility standards and also provides more examples of how to meet each criterion. 
If you are interested in learning more, you can also review the full guidance published by the [Web Accessibility Initiative](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/).

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-website-content)=
### Website Content 
Depending on your event and where you host online information, you should ensure that the digital home for your event covers this information:
- How to attend (joining links for online content and location information for in-person events).
- When and where your event is.
- What accessibility support there will be for your event

> - Who the event hosts are and who the session leads will be. This can help attendees know what to expect. 

Author: Does the formatting still hold the bullet points if in a new line? I wasn't sure which was the only reason I left it as is.

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-speaker-diversity)=
### Inviting Speakers with Lived Experience
Representation is incredibly important and you may want to consider how you represent your attendees in your invited speakers and event facilitators. 

When inviting a speaker with lived experience to present, consider if you have the resources to appropriately support their session and preparation. 
For example, you may need to provide details about the event ahead of when the information is scheduled to be sent to attendees. 
This is to ensure that the speaker feels supported and is able to make an informed decision before agreeing to present at your event. 

Ask the speaker if they require any support or accommodations and ensure that these are met to their satisfaction so that they are able to deliver their session effectively. 
For example, ensuring that there is an appropriately trained and qualified sign language interpreter who is able to work with a deaf or hard of hearing speaker. 

Additionally, if your event is supporting a speaker or facilitator with lived experience, consider asking how they wish to be identified in relation to their expertise and experience. 

> For example, many autistic people, and the autistic community as a collective, have expressed a preference for using "Identify-first" language which places the disability first in the description. 

Reviewer 2: I was thinking the same thing!

> For example, many autistic people, and the autistic community as a collective, have expressed a preference for using "Identify-first" language which places the disability first in the description. 

Author: Am I being too subtle? @EstherPlomp and @JFormoso 

The sentence starts with an example of identify-first language. 

> For example, many autistic people, and the autistic community ...

This can help in two core ways, 1) supporting speaking in developing both psychologically and physically accessible content, and 2) ensuring that your event's content is accessible to a diverse audience.

Firstly, consider how you will support speakers in developing accessible and inclusive material. 
This may mean developing and sharing guidance on session content, or could also be giving feedback on presentation drafts. 
Ensure that you contact and confirm your speakers with enough notice that allows them to prepare and revise material. 
Please refer to the {ref}`cl-inclusive-events-comms-accessibility-guide` section for more recommendations on what to include in a speaker guidance pack for how to make presentations accessible. 

Secondly, it is best practice to send out content before the session or event to ensure that people with sensory impairments, or who may require more time to review and engage with the material, are able to understand and take part. 

If this is not possible, please address the reasons why in the opening address of the event and make alternative arrangements.

> For example, if the information is sensitive and unable to be shared due to Intellectual Property or Privacy reasons. 

Reviewer 3: Or due to speakers not being able to meet deadlines, pfahhh. Sorry, not helpful comment :)

Author: Totally agree. 

Previous drafts were a bit more "because **some people** don't hand in their homework on time" 👨‍🎓 👀 but I thought that it was a bit too heavy-handed and was having a day where I believed the best in the world 😅

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-event-content)=
### Collaborative Event Content
If content such as presentation slides, worksheets, and other material are able to be shared but was not sent out before the event, consider sending it as soon as possible after the session. 
You can then also send out notes or session minutes taken during the event.
You could also consider taking collaborative notes during the session and making the document link available for attendees. 

> [HackMD](https://hackmd.io) or [Google Docs](https://www.google.co.uk/docs/about/) are recommended for their accessibility support features, and Etherpad can support a larger number of contributors. 

Reviewer 3: I thought we were using Etherpad because it was more accessible? 

Maybe also a link to Etherpad!

However, many attendees may be unfamiliar with these terms can can feel excluded from conversation and event content that focuses on them 

As part of planning, consider how you can reduce the use of jargon and acronyms at your event, and create a strategy for supporting speakers and facilitators to also avoid unnecessary jargon. 

You may want to develop a Glossary of Terms that can be included in information booklets, and where possible, work with researchers to be mindful of, and review, language choices to ensure inclusivity, such as avoiding gender-specific terms and including language that recognizes the diverse identities engaged in your event. 

You can find online examples of Glossaries developed by research funding bodies, or review the [NHS list of jargon and acronyms](https://www.nhsconfed.org/publications/acronym-buster) for inspiration.

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-plain-language)=
### Using Plain Language
Similar to avoiding jargon, ensure that your core communications are written using Plain Language or are in an "easy reading" format. 

> Using plain language is especially important in your registration and event information packs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using Plain Language is especially important in your registration and event information packs.
```
For consistency

> Plain language, sometimes referred to as Plain English in the UK and North America, allows for communications and other information to be read and understood easier. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Plain Language, sometimes referred to as Plain English in the UK and North America, allows for communications and other information to be read and understood easier. 
```

Consider how you will encourage attendees and speakers to adopt clear and plain language communication throughout your event. 

> For example, you could address and encourage the use of plain language during the opening address or by signposting it in your event's shared information. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, you could address and encourage the use of Plain Language during the opening address or by signposting it in your event's shared information. 
```

You could also consider an activity where researchers are paired with non-researchers and are asked to explain their research in under 3 minutes. 
This can help to bring "clear and effective communication" to the forefront of attendee's minds and set all attendees up to communicate clearly throughout the event.

> If possible, consider co-developing plain language and Easy Read content alongside a community representative or person with lived experience. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If possible, consider co-developing Plain Language and Easy Read content alongside a community representative or person with lived experience. 
```

What is the difference between Plain Language and Easy Read?

Author: me with noise cancelling headphones listening to Disney soundtracks and trying to stay out of discourse and drama 😅 😬 

Generally speaking, and if I don't have to link to any references, Easy Read was developed for people with intellectual disabilities or learning impairments. Compared to Plain Language which is more about reading comprehension level, sentence structure, clarity, and vocab use. 

I can dive into it, but it's something that I think would be better addressed in a dedicated section that has space to discuss the nuance of each. 

I was hoping to get away with not adding the discussion in here and that by both capitalizing it, and because the words "easy" and "read" themselves can be understood without much more explanation, it would mean that folks interested would then search for more information of "Easy Read" as a term, and that anyone reading at fae value would understand that "easy" "read" meant that the content would be easy to read.

Reviewer 3: I think a short explanation, or indeed separate section, would be helpful! I did not come across Easy Read before I think so would love to learn more about it :)

If this is not possible for your event, you can review guidance on how to write in plain language and ensure that core communications and event content are checked by using an external tool. 

```{note}
The Office for National Statistics in the UK has [published a short guide on writing with Plain Language](https://service-manual.ons.gov.uk/content/writing-for-users/plain-language) and there are also tools such as the [Hemingway App](https://hemingwayapp.com/) (an online tool that gives you feedback on the clarity of your writing), or Microsoft Word's reading level reviewer (if you have an account, Microsoft has provided [instructions on how to use it](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/get-your-document-s-readability-and-level-statistics-85b4969e-e80a-4777-8dd3-f7fc3c8b3fd2?ui=en-us&rs=en-us&ad=us#__toc342546555)) which provides the reading level of your document's content.
You can also paste the URL of a website into a [Readability Checker](https://www.webfx.com/tools/read-able/) to check the overall content and layout of your event's webpage. 
```

> Aim to have all core event communications be understandable by a general audience, and written in Plain Language. This does not need to mean that your entire event is pitched to a general audience, however by making all general information understandable you will be more inclusive and more able to engage all potential attendees, from research staff, researchers, organizers, people with lived experience, and other professions associated with your event's content. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Aim to have all core event communications be understandable by a general audience, and written in Plain Language. 
This does not need to mean that your entire event is pitched to a general audience, however by making all general information understandable you will be more inclusive and more able to engage all potential attendees, from research staff, researchers, organizers, people with lived experience, and other professions associated with your event's content. 
```

> Using plain language for your communications can help all attendees understand and engage in your event. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using Plain Language for your communications can help all attendees understand and engage in your event. 
```

Additionally, consider how you will be mindful of, and review, language choices to ensure inclusivity. 
For example, avoid gender-specific terms and include language that recognizes diverse identities in your event information and content. 
This can help acknowledge and respect the cultural differences of your attendees. 

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-plain-language-summaries)=
#### Plain Language Summaries

> If your event has a large focus on research content, consider writing plain language summaries of core content so that people with lived experience who do not have a background in research are able to engage in the sessions and understand the projects that are discussed. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your event has a large focus on research content, consider writing Plain Language summaries of core content so that people with lived experience who do not have a background in research are able to engage in the sessions and understand the projects that are discussed. 
```

> Please refer to The Turing Way's chapter on {ref}`cm-lay-summaries` for more guidance, and you can view good examples of plain language summaries from the [AI for Multiple Long Term Conditions research projects](https://aim-rsf.github.io/Glossary-of-Terms/pages/aim-projects.html). 

Author: Yeah. There's a few PRs about it and I also think in general there should be a section just about Plain Language and not just Plain Language Summaries tbh.

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-accessibility-guide)=
## Content Accessibility Guidance 
Ensuring that event communications, including printed content, are accessible to all attendees is critical. We have written a short guide for creating accessible content and presentations in {ref}(cl-inclusive-events-accessibility-guide) where you will find in-depth information and suggestions for how to make your presentations and content more accessible for your event.

> These recommendations include using at least a size 14 text in an accessible font type, and ensuring that your presentations and other material use high-contrast colours to support readability. You should also ensure that any images you use are accompanied by an alternative text description and remember to not embed any important information in an image or image file. 

Author: It is - but I'm trying to assume that people may not read all the sections and so breadcrumb throughout the different sections.

Even if your email contains all the details that an image of your flyer does, a person who is unable to access the information in the image will not know if there is information they are missing out on. 
Try to use multiple channels (such as a PDF flyer with alt-text, plain text email, accessible website, and a captioned video) to duplicate the communication of core information and engage with the communities of people with lived experience to understand how to communicate best with them. 

Please see the {ref}(cl-inclusive-events-accessibility-guide) for more information, and you can find recommendations for other specific content considerations in a [blog post](https://accessibility.blog.gov.uk/2016/09/02/dos-and-donts-on-designing-for-accessibility/) published by the Accessibility Team of the UK's Home Office Digital Group. 
These posters make recommendations for how to make communications and information accessible for people with: 
- low vision
- D/deaf and hard of hearing
- dyslexia
- motor disabilities
- users on the autistic spectrum
- users of screen readers

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-vendor-timelines)=
### Working with Vendors 

> As part of deciding what event and promotional materials will be required, identify who will develop these materials, whether it’s an external marketing agency or an internal graphic designer, and if there are additional requirements that vendors may have, such as specific printers, lead times, and file format preferences. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As part of deciding what event and promotional materials will be required, identify who will develop these materials. 
This can be an external marketing agency or an internal graphic designer. 
There  may be additional requirements that vendors may have, such as specific printers, lead times, and file format preferences. 
```
Or something else to shorten/split this sentence

Author: I think the split you suggested is great and makes it a lot easier to read.

By checking this with a supplier, you will be able to adjust designs and content if anything goes wrong. 

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-accessibility-hashtags)=
### Using Hashtags
If you plan on developing a hashtag for your event, consider how you intend attendees to interact with the hashtag and for what purpose. 
A hashtag that aims to raise awareness of your event will be different from one that raises awareness of your organization and research area. 
Event specific hashtags can be useful to assess online engagement at your event, and can also be used to develop a greater awareness of your event if social media plays a large role in attracting attendees. 

If you do choose to use a hashtag, try using Pascal Case (sometimes called Title Case) #WhichLooksLikeThis, where the first letter in each word is capitalized. 
Using Lowercase and uppercase letters can benefit people with dyslexia, and can also help a screen reader identify separate words, allowing the technology to pronounce the hashtag correctly. 

Try to avoid using a hyphen in your hashtags which some social media sites will read as two separate words. 

> If you can't keep your hashtag to a single word or phrase, use an underscore instead #Which_Looks_Like_This.

Author: As far as I'm aware, yes. 

I've seen it in a few social media recommendations and also heard it from our communications director. Still, it has been a while since I did social media strategy (or even used hashtags myself) though so would defer to a greater expert than me.

Any of the other decisions you have made may not be helpful in supporting the engagement and inclusion of people with lived experience if you have not 
communicated about what those decisions are. 
Even if you have planned the perfect event, if people don't what those plans are, you will not be able to run a successful event.

Creating a communication plan is therefore the key to hosting an accessible and inclusive event for people with lived experience.

This section provides guidance on what to consider when developing a communications plan for events involving people with lived experience. 
It will not be able to replace an in-depth communications plan, but instead draws attention to what additional considerations may be needed to help 
make your event inclusive of people with lived experience. 

"Communications" refers to the information you share with attendees, the timings and schedule on which you communicate it, 
the channels you will use, and the content and information about the event. 

When developing a communications strategy, you need to consider:
- Who is it going to.

> - Why it is going to them.

Author: I think that phrasing makes much more sense! Was definitely a case of me reading it back to myself and not explaining it well when writing.

- What will it contain.
- When does it need to be sent.

> - How will you convey the information.

Author: Added some updates in https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/pull/3327/commits/336bea7b492a7b9912372e5dce7168298067f808

Depending on the scale and resources for your event, your communications plan may include the development of websites, PDFs, flyers, banners, 
and social media posts in addition to email and calendar invites. 
By carefully planning out what you need to communicate, when, and how you ensure that the information is received and understood, 
your attendees will be supported in spending their effort and energy taking part in your event instead of worrying about their access needs.

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-timeline)=
## When to send Core Communications
The timeline for planning a communications schedule for your event will vary greatly depending on the size and type of event. 

When planning an event for people with lived experience, please be mindful that you will need to allocate more time to plan 

> for - and to implement - accessibility requirements, and that many people with lived experience will require information with as much notice as possible in order to plan their attendance.

Author: Added a sentence as suggested 🚀

(cl-inclusive-events-save-the-date)=
### Save the Date
Consider how early you will be able to send out a "Save the Date" for your event and when you will be able to finalize accessibility information and a reimbursement policy. 

Many people with lived experience of disabilities or medical conditions need to carefully plan their attendance as part of managing their condition, 
especially for in-person events. 
This can be due to medication requirements, and managing conditions that involve fatigue or overstimulation as well as figuring out a plan for how 
they will manage physical barriers to arriving at an in-person event. 

Providing clear and timely information will help your attendees with lived experiences plan their attendance safely, and in a way that supports them engaging fully in your event. 
This will also be supportive of attendees with busy schedules who may be booked out significantly in advance.

Your Save the Date should include an overview of honorarium or reimbursement support, the date, and the approximate location of the event such as Zoom, 

> or the name of the City where the event will take place. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or the name of the city where the event will take place. 
```

It should also reference how long the event is likely to be, for example, if it's a multi-day event or a few hours. 

> Attendees with a lived experience of caring responsibilities may need to hire and arrange alternative care support in order to attend your event, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attendees with caring responsibilities may need to hire and arrange alternative care support in order to attend your event, 
```

or could be placed at a significant financial disadvantage if they travel and attend. 
By providing guidance along with a "Save the Date", your attendees would have appropriate time be able to make arrangements, and also be able to make an informed choice about if they are able to attend. 

Consider sending out different forms of a Save the Date to support how different people use and interact with online calendars. 
For example, sending out an online calendar placeholder, an email invitation written in plain text with formatted headings, attaching a PDF flyer with Save the Date information, 
and promoting Save the Date information through your usual communication channels such as Slack, LinkedIn or organization's website and social media. 

> This can ensure that people who use different communication channels are able to receive the information in a medium that is accessible to them and through the channel they are most comfortably using. 

Reviewer: 👍

and its proximity to the event location, training session names, speaker names, breaks, and planned schedule, and at least 2 weeks in advance for events taking place on a single day.
The [Autism Advocacy Accessible Event Planning Guide](https://autisticadvocacy.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Accessible-Event-Planning.pdf) also contains other recommendations and timeline guidance for running events for autistic people.
```

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-website)=
## Using an Event Website 
It can be incredibly helpful to centralize information about your event in both online and offline locations.

Consider if your event will need a website and dedicate a page on your site to information and a point of contact regarding accessibility requirements and the steps you are taking to make the event inclusive for people with lived conditions and accessibility requirements. 

You can also choose an event platform such as Eventbrite, Humanitix, or EventYay to host information about your event. 
When deciding on what platform to use please review the accessibility of a potential site, and follow any advice as to how you can make your content on their platform accessible. 

> For example, [Eventbrite provides accessibility guidance](https://www.eventbrite.com/blog/66754-2how-to-creat-an-accessible-event-listing-ds00/) for event pages hosted on their platform. 

Reviewer: I think there was also the aspect that Eventbrite changed how/what they charge money for, maybe worth to have a quick check if that's still a good recommendation or at least point that those might be paid?

Author: Added a small note/disclaimer in https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/pull/3327/commits/8d6f2a3453919d6fa2d44c5f3bf92e7bbcc1701a

There are two main considerations for your event website:
{ref}`cl-inclusive-events-comms-website-accessibility` and {ref}`cl-inclusive-events-comms-website-content`. 

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-website-accessibility)=
### Website Accessibility

> Your website should meet Web Accessibility Standards by following the 4 WCAG principles: 

Reviewer: What is WCAG? :D

Reviewer: Beyond that, this section might potentially be a bit too in-depth here given that the focus is on events broadly and not so much on web-design?

Author: Updated with the full acronym - and then coming back again later when I start pulling out sections.

  Ideally, your site will also contain references to a Glossary that is linked to when those words appear.
  You may need to develop a Glossary specific to your event and area, or consider what Glossaries have been developed by research funding bodies or University Communications teams and provide links if applicable. 
- Finally, **Robustness**.
  Robustness refers to the importance of content on your event page's website being compatible with different browsers, now and in the future,
  and how compatible the content is with different technologies such as screen readers and other assistive technologies. 

[Mozilla's Developer Documentation on Web Accessibility](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Understanding_WCAG) provides a good overview of 
how to meet these 4 web accessibility standards and also provides more examples of how to meet each criterion. 
If you are interested in learning more, you can also review the full guidance published by the [Web Accessibility Initiative](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/).

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-website-content)=
### Website Content 

> Depending on your event and where you host online information, you Ensure that your event information covers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on your event and where you host online information, you should ensure that the digital home for your event covers this information:
```

- The program or agenda for the event including planned start and end times and scheduled breaks.
- The event's Code of Conduct and Privacy notice.
- Documentation or information about the honorarium, reimbursement, or renumeration policy for your event. 
- Information for a point of contact to get in touch with if there are any issues with joining or if attendees want follow-up information about the event.

Consider also providing any content that is on a website in an offline format such as an information booklet or flyer. 
This can help attendees access important event information without requiring internet access and can also help attendees with screen readers or who prefer to read information offline. 
HTML and plain text is often the most accessible format, and some PDF software provides several accessibility features such as Adobe Reader which can be accessed or downloaded for free. 

(cl-inclusive-events-registration)=
## Registration
If you are using forms or an external registration software, ensure that the registration forms and platform are accessible for all attendees. 

> This includes ensuring that if a time limit is imposed, it can be changed or turned off as mentioned above in the event website section. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure what time limit you mean, the one of e.g. eventbrite for "15 mins before your ticket is put back"?

Author: I updated this section - it would be great if you could review the changes as I may now be over-explaining things and giving too many examples.

For example, many autistic people, and the autistic community as a collective, have expressed a preference for using "Identify-first" language which places the disability first in the description. 
This is contrasted with "Person-first" language which emphasizes the person before the disability, for example, __Person with epilepsy_. 
Many people feel strongly about person or identity first language, and it is important to ask that individual about their preference as part of planning their introduction. 

You may notice that we have used both person-first and identity-first language has been used in this chapter. 
How a person chooses to self-identify is entirely a personal decision, and it is the role of organizers and facilitators to support the choices of the speakers and attendees, 
as long as it does not contravene the event's Code of Conduct. 
Consider instead including a statement on the inclusive and compassionate use of both person-first and identity-first language when opening your event. 

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-speaker-preparation)=

> ### Speaker Preparation

Reviewer: For this section I'm not 100% sure if this fits in "communication" or whether that should be part of the general conference pre-prep? At least the 1st section feels like it's more "supporting presenters"?

Author: I'll pull this out into a different (new) section.

Author: Actually I might think on this more. The heading for this section is "speaker information" with a description of 

> _If your event involves people with lived experience, you should consider how to set your speakers, presenters, and facilitators up for success.
You will need to identify and invite your speakers, regardless of their lived experience, well in advance of the event and provide them with support so that they can plan and deliver a successful session._

I'll come back to this after I've started pulling sections out.

Depending on the type of event you are planning, you may want to consider providing guidance for speakers, moderators, and presenters on inclusive communication, 
and requesting that any content delivered in the session can be sent to attendees before the event. 

If your event has online or streamed sessions, consider developing an information pack and working with your speakers and event facilitators to 
ensure that content is accessible and inclusive of all attendees. 
This information pack can contain guidance on how to present so that attendees with sensory processing differences or hearing impairments are able to engage in the session content. 
For example, recommending that speakers remain as still as possible while they are speaking and presenting, and requesting that online presenters are well-lit with a blurred background 
will help support attendees who rely on lip and face reading to engage in a session.

You can also include information about the audience and provide guidance on how to effectively communicate to an audience of people with lived experience. 

> Many early career researchers may not have recieved formal training in scientific communication and working with the public, so it can be helpful to emphasize the importance of using plain language and speaking clearly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many early career researchers may not have received formal training in scientific communication and working with the public, so it can be helpful to emphasize the importance of using plain language and speaking clearly. 
```

consider using software to gather questions as the session progresses. 
This can be helpful for people with lived experience of cognitive or sensory differences. 

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-attendees)=
## Who will be attending
People with lived experience may experience additional anxiety due to being in an unfamiliar environment where they can often feel like their presence is tokenistic. 
If you have planned your event well, attendees with lived experience should feel welcomed and able to engage fully in the event.

It can be helpful in your communications to state who will be in attendance.
For example "researchers, clinicians, policymakers, funding bodies, and people with lived experience". 

Finally, consider including short introductions and background information about the speakers and session facilitators in your event information. 
Many people with lived experience may feel more comfortable engaging in an event where they know who they are speaking with and it can be a helpful way to build rapport. 

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-presentation-material)=

> ## Presentation Slides and Event Content

Reviewer: I think this has also two aspects: 
1. how the conference itself communicates in slides etc
2. supporting the presenters in making sure their slides are both psychologically & physically accessible

Maybe worth to split these aspects out?

Author: I made some changes in the most recent commit. Let me know what you think 🔥

Reviewer: Yeah, that makes it a lot more concise! 👍

Consider how you will encourage attendees and speakers to adopt clear and plain language communication throughout your event. 

For example, you could address and encourage the use of plain language during the opening address or by signposting it in your event's shared information. 
You could also consider an activity where researchers are paired with non-researchers and are asked to explain their research in under 3 minutes. 
This can help to bring "clear and effective communication" to the forefront of attendee's minds and set all attendees up to communicate clearly throughout the event.

If possible, consider co-developing plain language and Easy Read content alongside a community representative or person with lived experience. 
If this is not possible for your event, ensure that core communications and event content are checked by using an external tool such as the [Hemingway App](https://hemingwayapp.com/). 
You can also paste the URL of a website into a [Readability Checker](https://www.webfx.com/tools/read-able/) to check the content of your event's webpage. 

> There are more resources below that can help you prepare Plain Language content. 

Reviewer: I think it would be good to either remove the resources list below or remove the concrete examples here and refer to the list below exclusively. 

As is there's a slight mismatch in that e..g Readability checker isn't listed below, but Hemingway is repeated. Plus there's only 2 more references below in the resource list that aren't already linked to here.

Author: Integrated the two paragraphs and added a call out block to help make the overall section more readable.

and there are online tools such as the [Hemingway App](https://hemingwayapp.com/) which give you feedback on your writing to make it clearer. 
If you have a Microsoft Word account, there is also a feature (and [instructions on how to use it](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/get-your-document-s-readability-and-level-statistics-85b4969e-e80a-4777-8dd3-f7fc3c8b3fd2?ui=en-us&rs=en-us&ad=us#__toc342546555)) which provides the reading level of your document's content.

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-plain-language-summaries)=
#### Plain Language Summaries
If your event has a large focus on research content, consider writing plain language summaries of core content so that people with lived experience 
who do not have a background in research are able to engage in the sessions and understand the projects that are discussed. 

Please refer to The Turing Way's chapter on {ref}`cm-lay-summaries` for more guidance.
and you can view good examples of plain language summaries from the [AI for Multiple Long Term Conditions research projects](https://aim-rsf.github.io/Glossary-of-Terms/pages/aim-projects.html). 

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-accessibility-guide)=

> ## Content Accessibility Guidance 

Reviewer: This section is also very detailed and I'm not sure if we should keep it at this level of detail here or link out to guidance instead? This could either be an external guide or we could consider making this its own page if it's an amalgamation of recommendations?

Author: I've had a think about some of these pieces and I think it would make sense to expand in some places, and give a dedicated subsection to others. I'll capture my thoughts in more detail in the core PR #3307. 

For now, I will go through this Communications subsection, action some of your suggestions, and see what pieces should shift into their own new subsection.

Reviewer: okay!

### Using Hashtags
If you plan on developing a hashtag for your event, consider how you intend attendees to interact with the hashtag and for what purpose. 
A hashtag that aims to raise awareness of your event will be different from one that raises awareness of your organization and research area. 
Event specific hashtags can be useful to assess online engagement at your event, and can also be used to develop a greater awareness of your event if social media plays a large role in attracting attendees. 

If you do choose to use a hashtag, try using Pascal Case (sometimes called Title Case) #WhichLooksLikeThis, where the first letter in each word is capitalized. 
Using Lowercase and uppercase letters can benefit people with dyslexia, and can also help a screen reader identify separate words, allowing the technology to pronounce the hashtag correctly. 

Try to avoid using a hyphen in your hashtags which some social media sites will read as two separate words. 
If you can't keep your hashtag to a single word or phrase, use an underscore instead #Which_Looks_Like_This.

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-key-information)=
## Key Information Checklist

> This is not an exhaustive list of what to include in core communication, however, it can be used as a reference in addition to the information above for what to include on a website or in an information pack. 

Reviewer: This again is a very detailed checklist that partially repeats points made above, but also introduces some new ones. Would it maybe be better to include the new points as individual points above (e.g. dress code) and then put the checklist as its own communications subsection at the end instead of merging it into the main body?

Author: I made dress code and sickness policy their own sections, and edited the checklist 🚀

Depending on the size and format of your event, consider how you will communicate the timeline for when attendees can expect any follow-up information. 
It may take a significant portion of time to manually transcribe sessions and add captions before uploading to a video hosting platform so it is helpful for attendees to know to expect follow-up content.

This can be especially important if your event involves people with lived experience giving feedback or input into a project. 
It can be demoralizing for a person with lived experience to volunteer their time and expertise in a focus group or for a grant application, and then receive no further information. 
Instead, consider setting a date when you or the research team will send an update, regardless of whether a potential project gets funded or not. 

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-conclusion)=
## Conclusion
By demonstrating an open channel of communication about accessibility, and by being thorough in your communications plans, you will be well-positioned to support people with lived experience engaging in your event in a way that is safe and fulfilling. 

(cl-inclusive-events-comms-additional-resources)=

> ## Additional Resources

Reviewer: Would it be good to aggregate all additional resources here (c.f. comments above on accessiblity guidelines etc)

Author: Added!
